.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii umc.1
.\"
.TH UMC 1 "MARCH 2005" Unix "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
umc \- universal modeline calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B umc
x y refresh [OPTIONS]
.br
.B umc 
x y hclock [OPTIONS]
.br
.B umc 
x y pclock [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B umc
is a modeline calculator that fully implements the \fBCoordinated
Video Timing\fR and the \fBGeneral Timing Formula\fR spreadsheets published 
by the Video Electronics Standards Association (www.vesa.org).  
Simply input a desired resolution and clock frequency.  All clock 
frequencies must be given in Hz.  For a full length, mostly accurate 
modeline tutorial visit http://lrmc.sourceforge.net
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-d\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-doublescan\fR"
.PD
Calculate a doublescanned modeline.  Doublescanned modes are useful
for running low resolutions on high resolution monitors, but they can 
also be used to display low resolutions with a very small scanline,
popular gaming resolutions like 640x480 and 800x600.  Doublescanned 
modes are not supported by many video cards.  You should only use this 
option if you know your video card supports them.
.IP "\fB\-i\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-interlace\fR"
.PD
Calculate an interlaced modeline.  Interlaced modes are useful
for running very high resolutions.  Interlaced modes are not 
supported by many video cards.  You should only use this option if 
you know your video card supports them.
.IP "\fB\-m\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-margin\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Margin size as a percentage of the resolution (default = 0). All 
margins are equal percentage wise (i.e. %top = %bottom = %left = %right).
.IP "\fB\-x\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-X11R6\fR"
.PD
Print modeline in X11R6 format (default).
.IP "\fB\-fb\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-fbset\fR"
.PD
Print modeline in fbset format.
.IP "\fB\-\-gtf\fR"
.PD
Use General Timing Formula.  UMC's default calculations are 
equivalent to:
.br
\fBumc x y clock -gtf -f 4 -v 4 [OPTIONS]\fR
.IP "\fB\-\-cvt\fR"
.PD
Use Coordinated Video Timing.
.IP "\fB\-\-rbt\fR"
.PD
Use Reduced Blanking Timing.
.SH ADVANCED OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-v\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-vertical-sync\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Number of lines in vertical sync, UMC = 4, GTF = 3, CVT varies by 
aspect ratio as follows:
.br
4:3  = 4 lines (default)
.br
16:9 = 5 lines
.br
16:10 = 6 lines
.br
5:4 = 7 lines
.br
15:9 = 7 lines
.IP "\fB\-c\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-character-cell\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Number of pixels per character cell (default = 8).
.IP "\fB\-p\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-pclock-step\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Pixel clock multiple (UMC default = 0, GTF default = 0, 
CVT default = 0.25).
.IP "\fB\-h\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-horizontal-sync\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Horizontal sync as a percentage of total active (default = 8).
.IP "\fB\-f\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-vertical-front-porch\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Number of lines in front porch (UMC default = 4, GTF default = 1, 
CVT default = 3).
.IP "\fB\-b\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-vertical-back-porch\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Minimum number of lines in vertical back porch (default = 6).
.IP "\fB\-y\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-back-porch-plus-sync\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Number of microseconds in vertical sync and back porch (default 550). 
.IP "\fB\-w\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-horizontal-blanking-ticks\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Number of pixel clock ticks in horizontal blanking time, RBT only 
(default 160). 
.IP "\fB\-s\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-horizontal-sync-ticks\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Number of pixel clock ticks in horizontal sync, RBT only 
(default 32). 
.IP "\fB\-t\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-vertical-blanking-time\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
Minimum vertical blanking time in microseconds, RBT only (default = 460)
.IP "\fB\-M\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-gradient\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
The value of M used to calculate the horizontal blanking time 
(default = 600). 
.IP "\fB\-C\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-offset\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
The value of C used to calculate the horizontal blanking time 
(default = 40). 
.IP "\fB\-K\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-scaling-factor\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
The value of K used to calculate the horizontal blanking time 
(default = 128). 
.IP "\fB\-J\fR\fI number\fR"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-scale-factor-weight\fR=\fInumber\fR"
.PD
The value of J used to calculate the horizontal blanking time 
(default = 20). 
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fB\ umc 1280 960 72\fR
Calculate a modeline for a 1280x960 resolution running at a refresh 
rate of 72Hz.  Print the modeline in X11 format. 
.TP
\fB\ umc 640 480 60 -d\fR
Calculate a modeline for a 640x480 resolution running at a refresh 
rate of 60Hz, doublescanned.  Print the modeline in X11 format. 
.TP
\fB\ umc 1280 960 31500 -i\fR
Calculate a modeline for a 1280x960 resolution running at a 
horizontal clock of 31.5kHz, interlaced. Print the modeline in X11 
format. 
.TP
\fB\ umc 1280 960 125000000\fR
Calculate a modeline for a 1280x960 resolution running at a pixel
clock of 125mHz. Print the modeline in X11 format. 
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Des Jones.
.SH BUGS THAT AREN'T BUGS
Doublescanned calculations are not formally laid out in either
the GTF or CVT worksheets.  Though easily added, for consistency purposes
the default vertical front porch and sync times were changed to be
a multiple of 2.  Consequently, umc calculations differ ever 
so slightly from VESA's.  See the --gtf and --cvt options above for 
unmolested calculations.  Only the GTF supports horizontal clock and 
pixel clock driven calculations.  Clock frequencies must always be 
given in Hz, never in kHz or mHz.
.SH BUGS
The fbset modeline format has never been tested.  It may not work.
Other bugs may be reported at http://sourceforge.net/projects/umc/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2005 Des Jones.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR  A  PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lrmc (1),
.BR advv (1),
.BR gtf (1)
